technical_specification/parallelism.3.exceptions.md, before:

# Parallel exceptions {#parallel.exceptions}

## Exception reporting behavior {#parallel.exceptions.behavior}

1. If temporary memory resources are required by the algorithm and none are available, the algorithm throws a `std::bad_alloc` exception.

2. During the execution of a standard parallel algorithm, if the application of a function object terminates with an
   uncaught exception, the behavior of the program is determined by the type of execution policy used to invoke the algorithm:

   * If the execution policy object is of type `vector_execution_policy`, `std::terminate` shall be called.

   * If the execution policy object is of type `sequential_execution_policy` or `parallel_execution_policy`,
     the execution of the algorithm terminates with an `exception_list` exception. All uncaught exceptions thrown during
     the application of user-provided function objects shall be contained in the `exception_list`.

      [*Note:* For example, the number of invocations of the user-provided function object in `for_each` is unspecified. When 
      `for_each` is executed sequentially, only one exception will be contained in the `exception_list` object -- *end note*]

      [*Note:* These guarantees imply that, unless the algorithm has failed to
      allocate memory and terminated with `std::bad_alloc`, all exceptions thrown 
      during the execution of the algorithm are communicated to the caller. It is 
      unspecified whether an algorithm implementation will "forge ahead" after 
      encountering and capturing a user exception. -- *end note*]

      [*Note:* The algorithm may terminate with the `std::bad_alloc` exception even if
      one or more user-provided function objects have terminated with an exception. 
      For example, this can happen when an algorithm fails to allocate memory while
      creating or adding elements to the `exception_list` object -- *end note*]

   * If the execution policy object is of any other type, the behavior is implementation-defined.

## Header `<experimental/exception>` synopsis {#parallel.exceptions.synop}

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\[\]]
namespace std {
namespace experimental {
namespace parallel {
  class exception_list : public exception
  {
    public:
      typedef exception_ptr                                             value_type;
      typedef const value_type&                                         reference;
      typedef const value_type&                                         const_reference;
      typedef \textit[implementation-defined]                                    const_iterator;
      typedef const_iterator                                            iterator;
\addvrbline[      typedef typename iterator_traits<const_iterator>::difference_type difference_type;]
      typedef size_t                                                    size_type;
  
\remvrbline[      size_t size() const];
\addvrbline[      size_t size() const noexcept];
\remvrbline[      iterator begin() const];
\addvrbline[      iterator begin() const noexcept];
\remvrbline[      iterator end() const];
\addvrbline[      iterator end() const noexcept];
  
    private:
      std::list<exception_ptr> exceptions_; // exposition only
  };
}
}
}
\end{Verbatim}

1. The class `exception_list` is a container of `exception_ptr` objects parallel algorithms may use to communicate uncaught exceptions encountered during parallel execution to the caller of the algorithm.\color{addclr}

2. The type `exception_list::const_iterator` shall fulfill the requirements of `ForwardIterator`.\color{black}

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]
size_t size() const \color{addclr}noexcept\color{black};
\end{Verbatim}

2. *Returns:* The number of `exception_ptr` objects contained within the `exception_list`.

3. *Complexity:* Constant time.

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]
exception_list::iterator begin() const \color{addclr}noexcept\color{black};
\end{Verbatim}

4. *Returns:* An iterator referring to the first `exception_ptr` object contained within the `exception_list`.

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]
exception_list::iterator end() const \color{addclr}noexcept\color{black};
\end{Verbatim}

5. *Returns:* An iterator which is the past-the-end value for the `exception_list`.

Commit message:

Follow up to my last change - use "element access functions" consistently.

technical_specification/parallelism.3.exceptions.md, after:

# Parallel exceptions {#parallel.exceptions}

## Exception reporting behavior {#parallel.exceptions.behavior}

1. If temporary memory resources are required by the algorithm and none are available, the algorithm throws a `std::bad_alloc` exception.

2. During the execution of a standard parallel algorithm, if the execution of an element access function terminates with an
   uncaught exception, the behavior of the program is determined by the type of execution policy used to invoke the algorithm:

   * If the execution policy object is of type `vector_execution_policy`, `std::terminate` shall be called.

   * If the execution policy object is of type `sequential_execution_policy` or `parallel_execution_policy`,
     the execution of the algorithm terminates with an `exception_list` exception. All uncaught exceptions 
     thrown from the element access functions shall be contained in the `exception_list`.

      [*Note:* For example, the number of invocations of the user-provided function object in `for_each` is unspecified. When 
      `for_each` is executed sequentially, only one exception will be contained in the `exception_list` object -- *end note*]

      [*Note:* These guarantees imply that, unless the algorithm has failed to
      allocate memory and terminated with `std::bad_alloc`, all exceptions thrown 
      during the execution of the algorithm are communicated to the caller. It is 
      unspecified whether an algorithm implementation will "forge ahead" after 
      encountering and capturing a user exception. -- *end note*]

      [*Note:* The algorithm may terminate with the `std::bad_alloc` exception even if
      one or more user-provided function objects have terminated with an exception. 
      For example, this can happen when an algorithm fails to allocate memory while
      creating or adding elements to the `exception_list` object -- *end note*]

   * If the execution policy object is of any other type, the behavior is implementation-defined.

## Header `<experimental/exception>` synopsis {#parallel.exceptions.synop}

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\[\]]
namespace std {
namespace experimental {
namespace parallel {
  class exception_list : public exception
  {
    public:
      typedef exception_ptr                                             value_type;
      typedef const value_type&                                         reference;
      typedef const value_type&                                         const_reference;
      typedef \textit[implementation-defined]                                    const_iterator;
      typedef const_iterator                                            iterator;
\addvrbline[      typedef typename iterator_traits<const_iterator>::difference_type difference_type;]
      typedef size_t                                                    size_type;
  
\remvrbline[      size_t size() const];
\addvrbline[      size_t size() const noexcept];
\remvrbline[      iterator begin() const];
\addvrbline[      iterator begin() const noexcept];
\remvrbline[      iterator end() const];
\addvrbline[      iterator end() const noexcept];
  
    private:
      std::list<exception_ptr> exceptions_; // exposition only
  };
}
}
}
\end{Verbatim}

1. The class `exception_list` is a container of `exception_ptr` objects parallel algorithms may use to communicate uncaught exceptions encountered during parallel execution to the caller of the algorithm.\color{addclr}

2. The type `exception_list::const_iterator` shall fulfill the requirements of `ForwardIterator`.\color{black}

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]
size_t size() const \color{addclr}noexcept\color{black};
\end{Verbatim}

2. *Returns:* The number of `exception_ptr` objects contained within the `exception_list`.

3. *Complexity:* Constant time.

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]
exception_list::iterator begin() const \color{addclr}noexcept\color{black};
\end{Verbatim}

4. *Returns:* An iterator referring to the first `exception_ptr` object contained within the `exception_list`.

\begin{Verbatim}[commandchars=\\\{\}]
exception_list::iterator end() const \color{addclr}noexcept\color{black};
\end{Verbatim}

5. *Returns:* An iterator which is the past-the-end value for the `exception_list`.
